Description of supplemental files

I.  The description of the grain boundary in the dsc_csl.txt and the
axis_angle_by_gb.txt file.  

The left grain and the right grain are each described by three
integer vectors.  The first vector on the left is the direction in
fcc (cubic) coordinates (for the left grain) of the sample x axis.  The x axis
is the normal to the grain boundary, so this vector gives the grain
boundary normal.  The second and third vectors similarly give the
directions of the sample y and z axes.  The three vectors on the right
give the same information for the right grain.  Each vector is an fcc
lattice vector when considered as having units of half the lattice constant.

This can be stated another way.  If each vector is converted to a unit
vector and the three vectors on the left are used as the rows of a 3x3
matrix, this gives a rotation matrix P.  (Similarly the three vectors
on the right give a rotation matrix Q.)  If P is multiplied by a
column vector which is a lattice vector in fcc coordinates it gives a
lattice vector in the left grain in the sample coordinates.  Similarly
Q transforms lattice vectors in fcc coordinates into lattice vectors
of the right grain.

This description specifies the grain boundary exactly.  There are of course
many different descriptions of this form that would describe the same boundary,
of which one has been chosen.  The only part of the choice that is relevant 
here is that each vector has a length less than or equal to 15.

II.  dsc_csl.txt
The first line has three items:
  1.  An index number for the grain boundary which is used throughout this 
supplemental data.
  2.  Sigma, the inverse of the fraction of coincident sites.
  3.  An index number for the misorientation represented by the grain
boundary.  Thus boundaries with the same misorientation index have
the same misorientation, but different boundary planes.

The next three lines give the grain boundary as described in (I).

A set of primitive lattice vectors for the DSC lattice is then given.
These are given in fcc coordinates which makes them rational numbers.
They must be multiplied by the rotation matrix P for the left grain in
order to obtain them in sample coordinates.  The units are half the
lattice constant.

A set of primitive lattice vectors for the CSL lattice is then given,
in the same coordinate frame and units as for the DSC lattice.

III.  axis_angle_by_gb.txt
This files gives the various possible descriptions of each boundary in terms
of rotation axis and rotation angle.

The first line gives the grain boundary index, and the next three lines
give the description of the grain boundary as in (I).  The grain boundary
index is repeated, followed by seven to twenty-four lines giving a description of
the boundary as follows:
  1.  The Miller type of the rotation axis.
  2.  The cosine of the rotation angle.
  3.  The rotation angle in degrees (as a positive number).
  4.  The Miller types of the grain boundary normals.  (These are given
as fcc lattice vectors with units of half the lattice spacing, so "10 6 2" is
given rather than "5 3 1".)
  5.  Whether the boundary is pure twist, pure tilt or mixed.  By pure twist we
mean that the rotation axis is normal to the boundary plane.  By pure tilt we
mean that the rotation axis lies in the boundary plane.
  6.  The grain boundary index.

Some of this data is redundant, but is intended to be useful for mining.

IV.  gb_by_axis_angle.txt

The lines in this file are in order by rotation axis and angle.  The entries
are the same as in (III) up through the "twist/tilt/mixed" indication.  This
is followed by the number of boundaries in this database that fit the description.
This number can be 1, 2 or 3, and is in parenthesis.  (Because the description
consists of the Miller types of the boundary axis and the boundary normals, rather
than giving specific directions, it does not uniquely specify a boundary.)
This is followed by the grain boundary index or indices.

V.  ni_al_energy.txt

The lines consist of
  1.  The grain boundary index.
  2.  The computed energy for the Foiles & Hoyt nickel potential.
  3.  The computed energy for the Ercolessi & Adams aluminum potential.

The units are Joules per square meter.  The number of significant figures
is uncertain, because the energy for the best configuration found is not necessarily 
the global minimum. 


